---
date: 2021-03-22T01:00:00+00:00
title: Barani cabled pluviometer
weight: 130
---

The pluviometer (rain gauge) should be installed vertically about one
meter above the ground, to minimize the effect of the wind. The top
should be horizontal. The Barani meteorological station has a 4 meters
long cable to convey the rain sensor data, so it can be installed at
some distance. In the test installation pictured the two instruments are
installed side by side, but this is not a requirement.

![](/en/Documentation/Installation/images/img_barani_cabled_pluviometer_installation/media/image3.png)
![](/en/Documentation/Installation/images/img_barani_cabled_pluviometer_installation/media/image2.png)

Remove the flat rectangular bottom of the cuboid container. insert the
cable coming from the Barani meteorological station. Strip about 4 cm of
insulation at the free end of the cable to expose the two insulated
wires inside.

Remove about 1 cm insulation from the two wire ends and insert them into
slots 3 and 4 of the board connected to the tipping spoon (the two wires
are interchangeable, they connect to a normally open reed switch). When
the tipping bucket tips, the reed switch changes state.

Insert the 4 small bolts from the inside of the cuboid container\'s
wall. Align the 4 holes of the aluminum bracket and insert the washers
and nuts to secure the bracket to the container.

![](/en/Documentation/Installation/images/img_barani_cabled_pluviometer_installation/media/image1.png)

Put back the bottom of the container, making sure that the cable is in
the slot so it is not pinched.

The aluminum bracket should be attached to a suitable pole, about 1 m
above the ground, by means of two hose clamps

Insert the funnel into the cuboid container. Make sure that the top of
the funnel is horizontal.

To protect the pluviometer from birds and leaves, it is advisable to fit
the top of the funnel with the six protruding spikes and circular
stainless steel grid provided,

**Resolution**

Rain gauge resolution is the minimum amount of rain that a rain gauge
can register and is rain gauge dependent (usually written on the bottom
of each gauge, as shown in the following image). This value was entered
in the Allmeteo site when the meteorological station was registered.

![](/en/Documentation/Installation/images/img_barani_cabled_pluviometer_installation/media/image5.png)
![](/en/Documentation/Installation/images/img_barani_cabled_pluviometer_installation/media/image4.png)

NOTE: All rain values from the weather station are automatically
converted based on rain gauge resolution and then saved to the database.
It is important that the rain gauge resolution setting is correct
because data entered into the database cannot be changed.

Last updated 2021/04/9
