---
title: Barani MeteoHelix
weight: 120
---

## Barani MeteoHelix installation

The Barani Helix meteo station transmits every 10 minutes a payload of
24 bytes carrying the air temperature, pressure, humidity, dew point,
solar irradiation and internal battery level.

It is fitted with a small solar panel to charge the battery, and it is
important that this panel is not shielded from sunlight by nearby
objects.

When a rain gage is connected by means of a cable the meteo station will
also transmit rain data in the same message.

The helical radiation shield reduces the impact of the sun in the
temperature readings.

![](/en/Documentation/Installation/images/img_barani_meteo_helix_installation/media/image5.png)

The meteo station can be installed in a mast or attached to a building
side using the provided standoff.

A magnetic switch is used to turn on the station. Insert the small
plastic tube containing the magnet inside the helix until you see a
green LED flashing every 5 seconds. Remove the magnet and proceed to the
installation.

![](/en/Documentation/Installation/images/img_barani_meteo_helix_installation/media/image6.png)

The same magnet can be used to turn the station off, for instance to
prevent the discharge of the battery when transporting the station to a
different location.

Since the station has already been configured, you can verify that it is
transmitting by visiting the allmeteo page at
[https://weather.allmeteo.com](https://weather.allmeteo.com)

![](/en/Documentation/Installation/images/img_barani_meteo_helix_installation/media/image1.png)

Use your own credentials. It will take a few minutes for the system to
respond.

## Installation steps

Remove the three 7 mm nuts and their washers from the bottom of the
station.

Insert the standoff in the three exposed bolts.

![](/en/Documentation/Installation/images/img_barani_meteo_helix_installation/media/image4.png)

Put back the flat washer first, then the slotted washer and the nut in
each bolt. Tighten the nuts.

The standoff can be fixed to a mast using U bolts of the proper size or
metallic hose clamps:

![](/en/Documentation/Installation/images/img_barani_meteo_helix_installation/media/image2.png)

Alternatively the standoff can be attached to a flat structure, like the
side of a building, using screws or bolts.

![](/en/Documentation/Installation/images/img_barani_meteo_helix_installation/media/image3.png)

### Additional installation details

[MeteoHelix Quick Start Guide](https://www.baranidesign.com/s/MeteoHelix-IoT-Pro-allMeteo-Portal-Quick-Guide.pdf)

Last update 2021/04/23
